# Automatic-Classification-of-Environmental-Sounds-with-Convolutional-Neural-Networks-CNNs-
Abstract:
  With the advancement of Deep Neural Networks (DNN), the accuracy of sound classification such as Urban Sound Classification, Environmental Sound Classification etc., has been significantly improved. In this project, we propose a model that uses Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) to identify sound based on the spectrograms for different sound samples collected. The model can be used for detection of deforestation, detection of shooting in urban areas and detection of strange noises at odd hours in streets such as Air Conditioner, Car Horn, Children Playing, Dog bark, Drilling, Engine Idling, Gun Shot, Jackhammer, Siren, Street Music etc., 
Challenges:
  Environmental sound work has two major obstacles, namely the lack of audio data labelled. Previous work focused on audio from carefully produced films or TV tracks from particular environments such as elevators or office spaces and commercial or proprietary datasets. Lack of fundamental vocabulary in Environmental Sounds work. This means that the classification of sounds in to the semantic groups may vary from study to study, making it difficult to compare results so the goal of this notebook is to address the two challenges mentioned above.  
Dataset:
  The dataset is called UrbanSound8K and contains 8732 labelled sound excerpts (&lt;=4s) of urban sounds from 10 classes: - The dataset contains 8732 sound excerpts (&lt;=4s) of urban sounds from 10 classes, namely: Air Conditioner Car Horn Children Playing Dog bark Drilling Engine Idling Gun Shot Jackhammer Siren Street Music The attributes of data are as follows: ID  Unique ID of sound excerpt Class  type of sound 
Problem statement:
  It will show how to apply Deep Learning techniques to environmental recognition sounds, focusing specifically on recognizing unique Environmental sounds. If we give an audio sample of a few seconds duration in a computer-readable format (such as a.wav file), we want to be able to determine whether it contains one of the target Environmental sounds with a corresponding classification accuracy score. 
Note: Loading audio files and pre-processing takes some times to complete with large dataset. To avoid reload every time reset the kernel or resume works on next day, all loaded audio data will be serialized into a object file. so next round only need to load the seriazed object file. 
Optional GPU configuration initialization
